Community components (#1001)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/get-started/community_components.md

Reviewer: Some high level comments:

1. I think we should explicitly document on this page that community components do not have a stability level
2. I think we should modify the [backward compatibility page](https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/introduction/backward-compatibility/) and write "community components" as an exception.

> ---

Reviewer 2: @clayton-cornell I thought it's worth checking with you: do you think this is the right place for this doc?

Reviewer 3: I think it should be OK here. the `get-started` section is slowly being adapted and cleaned up and should explain what Alloy is in more detail... including a description of components in general. This new content fits in here since it just describes what they are... and doesn't provide any instructions or reference content.

canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/get-started/community_components/
description: Learn about community components
title: Community components
weight: 100
---

# Community components

__Community components__ are [components][Components] implemented and maintained by the community.

> While Grafana does not offer commercial support for these components, they undergo acceptance and review by {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}'s team before being added to the repository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While Grafana does not offer commercial support for these components, they undergo acceptance and review by the {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} development team before being added to the repository.
```

We should not refer to Alloy in possessive (eg `Alloy's`)

> To use these community components, you need to explicitly pass the `--feature.community-components.enabled` flag to the `run` command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use these community components, you must explicitly pass the `--feature.community-components.enabled` flag to the `run` command.
```

{{< admonition type="warning" >}}

> __Community components__ without an owner may be eventually disabled or removed if they preventing us from being able to continue work on Alloy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
__Community components__ without a maintainer may be disabled or removed if the components prevent or block the development of {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}.
```

I'm not sure about the wording here vs the intent.  A component without a maintainer could, in theory, block the release Alloy... if there's something that becomes incompatible with a new release?

Author: that's correct. For example if by updating some dependencies we break a community component and there is no easy way to fix it + the community maintainers don't have time to do it then we might disable it/remove it to prevent from blocking a release or an important feature

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/get-started/community_components/
description: Learn about community components
title: Community components
weight: 100
---

# Community components

__Community components__ are [components][Components] implemented and maintained by the community.

> While Grafana does not offer commercial support for these components, they undergo acceptance and review by the {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} development team before being added to the repository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While Grafana does not offer commercial support for these components, they still undergo acceptance and review by the {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} development team before being added to the repository.
```

To use these community components, you must explicitly pass the `--feature.community-components.enabled` flag to the `run` command.

> __Community components__ don't have a stability level. They are not covered by our [backward compatibility strategy][backward-compatibility].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
__Community components__ don't have a stability level. They aren't covered by our [backward compatibility strategy][backward-compatibility].
```
